Add "Cross-Contract Communication" tutorial (#995)
casper-network/docs: source/docs/casper/resources/tutorials/advanced/cross-contract.md

---
title: Cross-Contract Communication
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Tutorial: Cross-Contract Communication

|                    |                    |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| Level: | `Advanced` |
| Time to complete: | `45 - 60 Minutes`|

Make sure you have installed the software/packages needed for this tutorial.

This tutorial assumes that you have worked through these examples, if you have not already done so then we recommend that you do so now:
- [getting started](../../../developers/writing-onchain-code/getting-started.md)
- [writing on-chain code](../../../developers/writing-onchain-code/simple-contract.md)

## Outline of the tutorial {#outline}

> This tutorial covers some variations of cross-contract communication. Most complex scenarios use cross-contract communication, so it is crucial to understand how this works. It is best explained using the uniswap v2 protocol.

Reviewer: The example with Uniswap was to present a tangible use case that is used in the real world. I do know that we don't have an example of a native DEX on Casper. A lot of people in Crypto/Blockchain are however familiar with Uniswap and this was just to make a point, that in those cases Cross-Contract Communication is used.

Uniswap v2 protocol consists of multiple smart contracts which govern a unified blockchain application and each contract serves a different purpose.
The contracts are as follows:
- Factory
- Pair
- Pair (ERC20)
- Library
- Router01
- Router02

The Factory contract is generally used to create a token pair. It throws an event that a pair has been created and allows the user to read the pair created. The most important to notice is that the generation of a token pair actually creates a contract of type Pair under a new address hash.

> The Pair smart contract is used to perform operations like mint or burn on a created pair of tokens.

Reviewer: For this, it is not necessary to know how Uniswap works for providing liquidity/creating pairs. The point that I am making is that the Factory contract creates the Pair contract and both contracts: Factory and Pair, have different responsibilities, but it might be necessary to send information between both of them.

    let mut vec = Vec::new();
    vec.push(Parameter::new("new_message", CLType::String));
    vec.push(Parameter::new("hello_world_contract", CLType::Key));

    // In the named keys of the contract, add a key for the count.
    let mut named_keys = NamedKeys::new();

    // create an Entry Point Object
    let mut entry_points = EntryPoints::new();

    // add the entry point to the entry points object
    entry_points.add_entry_point(EntryPoint::new(
       "call_contract_2",
       vec,
       CLType::Unit,
       EntryPointAccess::Public,
       EntryPointType::Contract
    ));

    // the contract is stored in the global state
    let (stored_contract_hash, _contract_version) = storage::new_contract(
       entry_points,                                        // entry points
       Some(named_keys),                                    // named keys 
       Some("contract2_package_name".to_string()),          // package name
       Some("contract2_access_uref".to_string())            // access uref
    );

    // to access from the account - named keys of the account
    runtime::put_key("cross_contract_2", stored_contract_hash.into());
}

```

> This would be the easiest implementation of the call function. There is only one entry point which accepts the key `contract2` of type `String` and the key `hello_world_contract` of the type `Key`. There aren't any named keys which will be saved in the contracts context. The contract is then stored in the global state and placed as a named key in the accounts context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would be the easiest implementation of the `call` entry point. There is only one entry point which accepts the key `contract2` of type `String` and the key `hello_world_contract` of the type `Key`. There aren't any named keys which will be saved in the contract's context. The contract is then stored in global state and placed as a named key in the account's context.
```

The call from the terminal will look as follows:

```bash
casper-client put-deploy \
    --node-address http://136.243.187.84:7777 \
    --chain-name casper-test \
    --secret-key ./keys/secret_key.pem \
    --payment-amount 20000000000 \
    --session-path ./contract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/contract.wasm
```

:::tip

You may have noticed that the contract.wasm is always output to the same filename for each new `cargo casper` project. You can change this by editing the `Makefile` in the main directory. You can then observe the result by recompiling your contract with these commands;

```bash
make prepare
make build-contract
```
:::

After the deploy we can check if it was successful and inspect the parameters of the deployed entry points.

The output of the deployment is:

```bash
{
  "id": -7557689417621513622,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.13",
    "deploy_hash": "faeb7e4f010c20c88d2dd126da545933c26fd8ce370282b8cd49f7f6fe7304b9"
  }
}
```

:::tip

If the contract name doesn't change during concurrent deploys, the urefs/hashes will be overwritten in the account's named keys.

:::

> Observing the deploy, we can see that it has been successful:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Observing the deploy, we can see that it succeeded:
```

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/Deploy.png")} width="600" alt="Deploy" />

If we check the account's named keys, we can see all of the account's deployed contracts:

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/NamedKeys.png")} width="600" alt="NamedKeys" />

> As we have now managed to deploy two contracts, we can call the endpoint of this contract, passing appropriate arguments to the function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we have now managed to deploy two contracts, we can call the entry point of this contract, passing appropriate arguments to the function. 
```

The Uref of the message variable is stored under the Named Keys in the contract. 
Checking the state of the message in the first contract, we observe the following:

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/HelloWorldBCC.png")} width="600" alt="HelloWorld" />

This is a simple `hello world` string. After invoking the endpoint using the command below this value should change.

:::info

`--session-hash` - is the contract hash, which is returned from the put-deploy. 

> `--session-arg` "hello world_contract:Key= ..."  the hash of the contract which we want to call from within the contract identified by the session-hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`--session-arg` "hello world_contract:Key= ..." - the hash of the contract which we want to call from within the contract identified by the session-hash.
```

:::

```bash
casper-client put-deploy \
    --node-address http://136.243.187.84:7777 \
    --chain-name casper-test \
    --secret-key ./keys/secret_key.pem \
    --payment-amount 20000000000 \
    --session-hash hash-32ad0e54e874f68706708ebfd2c5aba7803eb64ccff71a50d3c4d4f29db15c92 \
    --session-entry-point "call_contract_2" \
    --session-arg "new_message:string='Hello new message!'" \
    --session-arg "hello_world_contract:Key='hash-b7a06298cc71d4cac05929cc0713dfd5a541c68b71cb500cd04547b5cd0385ea'"
```

:::tip

The contract hash has to be of type `ContractHash` in the contract itself, we can pass the hash as a `Key` argument and change it to `ContractHash` in the smart contract.

:::

The output of the above command is:

```bash
{
  "id": -6419793201665396463,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.13",
    "deploy_hash": "15e11340d92fc9e64deb38bd942f4efb69caad0851eec24fd577070309d18537"
  }
}
```

> After the deploy finishes successfuly, you should see a similar outcome to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the deploy finishes successfully, you should see a similar outcome to the following:
```

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/FunctionCall2.png")} width="600" alt="FunctionCall2" />

We would expect that the value of the message reference in the other contract would have changed, which we can check:

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/NewHelloWorld.png")} width="600" alt="NewHelloWorld" />

> With this we have succesfully built a cross contract communication between two contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this we have succeeded in cross-contract communication between two contracts.
```

## Summary {#summary}

In this tutorial, we:
- Discussed why cross-contract communication is sometimes necessary

> - Developed two Rust contracts on the Casper Network where one smart contract is calling an entry point of the second smart contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Developed two Rust contracts on a Casper network, where one smart contract is calling an entry point of the second smart contract
```

> - Called an entry point on one contract from the other contract, passing a value as argument to this entry point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Called an entry point on one contract from the other contract, passing a value as an argument to this entry point.
```

    // insert the new value into the named keys
    named_keys.insert(String::from("message"),value_ref.into()); // use into to wrap the value to the key
    // create a new vector 
    let mut vec = Vec::new();
    vec.push(Parameter::new("message", CLType::String));
    // create an Entry Point Object
    let mut entry_points = EntryPoints::new();

    // add the entry point to the entry points object
    entry_points.add_entry_point(EntryPoint::new(
        "update_msg",
        vec,
        CLType::Unit,
        EntryPointAccess::Public,
        EntryPointType::Contract
    ));

    // the contract is stored in the global state
    let (stored_contract_hash, _contract_version) = storage::new_contract(
        entry_points,                                       // entry points
        Some(named_keys),                                   // named keys 
        Some("Hello_world_package_name".to_string()),       // package name
        Some("Hello_world_access_uref".to_string())         // access uref
    );

    // to access from the account - named keys of the account
    runtime::put_key("hello_world_contract", stored_contract_hash.into());
}
```

:::info

> There is a distinction between storing data in a contract’s `NamedKeys` and using a dictionary. Dictionaries can be used to store dApp-centric data, but they are not a SQL database and should only be used for data that needs to be stored in global state. Objects referenced in a contract should only be used as links within a bigger application.

Reviewer: This sentence is trying to point out why it is good to be mindful which data should be stored in the Named Keys and which in the Dictionaries. If a developer is inexperienced then he/she might try to store a lot of information in the Named Keys but this wouldn't be good from the design point of view.

> There is a distinction between storing data in a contract’s `NamedKeys` and using a dictionary. Dictionaries can be used to store dApp-centric data, but they are not a SQL database and should only be used for data that needs to be stored in global state. Objects referenced in a contract should only be used as links within a bigger application.

Reviewer: Add link to the Dictionaries page

> There is a distinction between storing data in a contract’s `NamedKeys` and using a dictionary. Dictionaries can be used to store dApp-centric data, but they are not a SQL database and should only be used for data that needs to be stored in global state. Objects referenced in a contract should only be used as links within a bigger application.

Reviewer: Link was added

:::

Since we are using a standard contract structure, the command called from the `cross-contract` folder should be the following:

```bash
casper-client put-deploy \
    --node-address http://136.243.187.84:7777 \
    --chain-name casper-test \
    --secret-key ./keys/secret_key.pem \
    --payment-amount 20000000000 \
    --session-path ./contract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/contract.wasm \
    --session-arg "message:string='hello world'"
```

The output of this command is:

```bash
{
  "id": -9119604526598719721,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.13",
    "deploy_hash": "af42bc6dbc58f677d138eb968d897f965f1ed118a40980bc16efbcc2a0c71832"
  }
}
```

To verify that the contract was successfully deployed, call `get-deploy`, providing as a parameter the `deploy-hash` received from the `put-deploy` above.

```bash
casper-client get-deploy \
    --node-address http://136.243.187.84:7777 af42bc6dbc58f677d138eb968d897f965f1ed118a40980bc16efbcc2a0c71832
```

This should return a JSON output containing information such as header data, approvers and payments. Take time to familiarize yourself with the structure of the output. 

> We can use the supplied deploy hash, `af42bc6dbc58f677d138eb968d897f965f1ed118a40980bc16efbcc2a0c71832` to find this contract using a block explorer. When viewed through the explorer, the status of the Deploy should be marked as `Success`.

Reviewer 2: We would suggest making this tutorial specific to the Rust CLI rather than including the block explorer here.

Reviewer: All of the block explorer parts were changed to the CLI

By clicking the contract hash, you can see all entry points included in the contract, as well as the `NamedKeys` under which your contract’s name is stored. You should keep these named keys organized to avoid losing track while creating larger implementations.

An additional tab, `Deploys`, that is currently empty. If our contract included a cross-contract call that called an entry point from another contract, it would appear here. For now, we can note the hash of the contract, which is `hash-b7a06298cc71d4cac05929cc0713dfd5a541c68b71cb500cd04547b5cd0385ea`.

## Create Another Contract for the Cross-Contract Call {#cross-contract}

This section describes the process of writing an additional contract, which will use an entry point titled `call_contract_2` to invoke the `update_msg` entry point on the previous contract.

In this tutorial we will be passing the contract hash, as an argument, into the `call` entry point and use this to perform the calls to the destination contract.

Prepare the `call` entry point as described below:

```bash

#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn call() {
    

>     // create a new vector - this will be the signature of the entry point

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Create the list of required runtime arguments for the given entry point.
```

    let mut vec = Vec::new();
    vec.push(Parameter::new("new_message", CLType::String));
    vec.push(Parameter::new("hello_world_contract", CLType::Key));

    // In the named keys of the contract, add a key for the count.
    let mut named_keys = NamedKeys::new();

    // create an Entry Point Object
    let mut entry_points = EntryPoints::new();

>     // add the entry point to the entry points object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Add the entry point metadata definition.
```

    entry_points.add_entry_point(EntryPoint::new(
       "call_contract_2",
       vec,
       CLType::Unit,
       EntryPointAccess::Public,
       EntryPointType::Contract
    ));

    // the contract is stored in the global state
    let (stored_contract_hash, _contract_version) = storage::new_contract(
       entry_points,                                        // entry points
       Some(named_keys),                                    // named keys 
       Some("contract2_package_name".to_string()),          // package name
       Some("contract2_access_uref".to_string())            // access uref
    );

    // to access from the account - named keys of the account
    runtime::put_key("cross_contract_2", stored_contract_hash.into());
}

```

> This would be the easiest implementation of the `call` entry point. There is only one entry point which accepts the key `contract2` of type `String` and the key `hello_world_contract` of the type `Key`. There aren't any named keys which will be saved in the contract's context. The contract is then stored in global state and placed as a named key in the account's context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would be the easiest implementation of the `call` entry point. There is only one entry point which accepts the key `contract2` of type `String` and the key `hello_world_contract` of the type `Key`. There aren't any named keys which will be saved in the contract's context. The contract is then stored in global state and placed as an entry within the account's named keys.
```

> Now that we have defined the `call_contract_2` entry point, we must implement the corresponding function. This entry point will take the second contract hash as an argument and call the entry point `update_msg`. It will then pass a message to the second contract as a parameter, which will be stored in that contract’s context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have defined the metadata for the `call_contract_2` entry point, we must now define the entry point itself. This entry point will take the second contract hash as an argument and call the entry point `update_msg`. It will then pass a message to the second contract as a parameter, which will be stored in that contract’s context.
```

```bash
#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn call_contract_2() {

>     // get the contract hash from the named arguments passed to the call

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // get the contract hash from the named arguments passed to the `call_contract_2` entry point.
```

    let contract_hash: ContractHash = runtime::get_named_arg::<Key>(CONTRACT_HASH)
    .into_hash()
    .map(|hash| ContractHash::new(hash))
    .unwrap();

    // get the value of the message from the second parameter  
    let new_value: String = runtime::get_named_arg("new_message");

>     // Call the update_msg endpoint on the other contract with the parameter values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Call the update_msg entry point on the other contract with the parameter values
```

#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn call_contract_2() {

    let contract_hash: ContractHash = runtime::get_named_arg::<Key>(CONTRACT_HASH)
    .into_hash()
    .map(|hash| ContractHash::new(hash))
    .unwrap();

    let new_value: String = runtime::get_named_arg("new_message");

    let _: () = runtime::call_contract(
        contract_hash, 
        "update_msg", 
        runtime_args! {
            // key    => value
            "message" => new_value,
        },
     );

}

#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn call() {
    
    // create a new vector - this will be the signature of the entrypoint
    let mut vec = Vec::new();
    vec.push(Parameter::new("new_message", CLType::String));
    vec.push(Parameter::new("hello_world_contract", CLType::Key));

    // In the named keys of the contract, add a key for the count.
    let named_keys = NamedKeys::new();

    // create an Entry Point Object
    let mut entry_points = EntryPoints::new();

    // add the entry point to the entry points object
    entry_points.add_entry_point(EntryPoint::new(
       "call_contract_2",
       vec,
       CLType::Unit,
       EntryPointAccess::Public,
       EntryPointType::Contract
    ));

>     // the contract is stored in the global state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // the contract is stored in global state
```

cd contract && cargo build --release --target wasm32-unknown-unknown
   Compiling contract v0.1.0 (/Users/karolmarter/Desktop/Rust_Projects/cross-contract-2/contract)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.69s
wasm-strip contract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/contract.wasm 2>/dev/null | true
```

Create the `keys` subfolder and copy the keys from the `keys` subfolder in the first contract into this subfolder.
The call from the terminal will look as follows:

```bash
casper-client put-deploy \
    --node-address http://136.243.187.84:7777 \
    --chain-name casper-test \
    --secret-key ./keys/secret_key.pem \
    --payment-amount 20000000000 \
    --session-path ./contract/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/contract.wasm
```

:::tip

You may have noticed that the contract.wasm is always output to the same filename for each new `cargo casper` project. You can change this by editing the `Makefile` in the main directory. You can then observe the result by recompiling your contract with these commands;

```bash
make prepare
make build-contract
```
:::

After the deploy we can check if it was successful and inspect the parameters of the deployed entry points.

> The output of the deployment is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The result of invoking the `put-deploy` subcommand is:
```

```bash
{
  "id": -7557689417621513622,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.13",
    "deploy_hash": "faeb7e4f010c20c88d2dd126da545933c26fd8ce370282b8cd49f7f6fe7304b9"
  }
}
```

:::tip

If the contract name doesn't change during concurrent deploys, the urefs/hashes will be overwritten in the account's named keys.

:::

> Observing the deploy, we can see that it succeeded:

Reviewer 2: We can use screenshots from the Rust CLI, to stay consistent with the overall tutorial.

Reviewer: Rust CLI was used instead of the block explorer screenshots

    --session-arg "hello_world_contract:Key='hash-b7a06298cc71d4cac05929cc0713dfd5a541c68b71cb500cd04547b5cd0385ea'"
```

:::tip

The contract hash has to be of type `ContractHash` in the contract itself. We can pass the hash as a `Key` argument and change it to `ContractHash` in the smart contract.

:::

The output of the above command is:

```bash
{
  "id": -6419793201665396463,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.13",
    "deploy_hash": "15e11340d92fc9e64deb38bd942f4efb69caad0851eec24fd577070309d18537"
  }
}
```

After the deploy finishes successfully, you should see a similar outcome to the following:

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/FunctionCall2.png")} width="600" alt="FunctionCall2" />

We would expect that the value of the message reference in the other contract would have changed, which we can check:

<img class="align-center" src={useBaseUrl("/image/tutorials/cross-contract/NewHelloWorld.png")} width="600" alt="NewHelloWorld" />

With this we have succeeded in cross-contract communication between two contracts.

## Summary {#summary}

In this tutorial, we:

> - Discussed why cross-contract communication is sometimes necessary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
